 

 
ACCESSIBILITY POLICY  
 
Purpose: 
CarltonOne Engagement is committed to diversity, inclusion and accessibility for persons with disabilities. 
The  purpose  of  this  policy  is  to  establish  policies,  practices  and  procedures  to  ensure  CarltonOne 
Engagement is accessible to people with disabilities in accordance with Accessibility for Ontarians with 
Disabilities Act, 2005 (the "Act"). 

Policy Statement:  

CarltonOne Engagement is committed to ensuring equal access, service, and participation for people with 
disabilities. We are committed to treating people with disabilities in a way that allows them to maintain 
their dignity and independence.  

Application: 

This policy applies to all CarltonOne Engagement employees in Ontario.  

General Principles and Practices: 

CarltonOne  Engagement  shall  meet  its  duties and  responsibilities  under  the  “Act”  by  adhering  to  the 
following principles and practices: 

1.  Communication 

CarltonOne Engagement is committed to communicating with persons with disabilities in ways 
that consider their disability. 

2.  Training of employees 

CarltonOne Engagement will provide training to all its workers regarding the provisions and ways 
to ensure accessible programs, goods, services, and workplace. 

Training  will  occur  on  an  ongoing  basis  and  whenever  changes  are  made  to  relevant  policies, 
practices and procedures. 

3.  Assistive devices 

CarltonOne Engagement permits persons with disabilities to use their personal assistive devices 
while on its premises. 

4.  Service animals and support persons 

 

 

CarltonOne Engagement welcomes onto its premises people with disabilities and their service 
animals and support persons upon whom persons with disabilities rely.  

5.  Notice of temporary disruption 

CarltonOne Engagement will give notice of temporary disruptions to services or facilities used by 
persons with disabilities including the reason for the disruption, the anticipation of the disruption 
and any alternative facilities or services that may be available. The notice shall be posted in a 
conspicuous place on the premises. 

Procedure: 

To request accommodation or assistance for any good or service, contact CarltonOne Engagement by 
phone or email.  

1.  Feedback process 

CarltonOne Engagement encourages feedback regarding how it provides goods and services to 
persons with disabilities.  This can be provided via the following methods: 

• 

through the “Talk to us” link on our website 

E-mail:   
                          or by e-mail:  info@carltonone.com or HumanResources@carltonone.com 
 
  

 

•  Mail: 

 

Attn: Human Resources 
60 Columbia Way, 9th Floor 
Markham, ON L3R 0C9 

•  Phone:   

866.451.2225 

 

2.  Modifications to this or other policies 

CarltonOne Engagement is committed to ensuring that its policies, practices and procedures are 
consistent with and promote the core principles of dignity, independence, integration and equal 
opportunity.  Any  policy  that  does  not  respect  and  promote  the  dignity  and  independence  of 
persons with disabilities will be modified or removed. 

3.  Policy Review 

CarltonOne  Engagement  will  maintain  the  Accessibility  Plan  &  Policy  outlining  the  Company’s 
strategy to prevent and remove barriers from its workplace and to meet its requirements under 
the “Act”. 

4.  Compliance 

 
Employees are expected to comply with all parts of this policy.  Failure to comply will result in 
discipline, up to and including termination for cause. 

 

 

 

ACCESSIBILITY PLAN 
 
Assistive Devices 
 
CarltonOne Engagement will ensure that its staff is trained and familiar with various assistive devices that 
may be used by customers with disabilities while accessing our goods or services. 

Persons  with  disabilities  may  use  their  own  assistive  devices  as  required  when  accessing  goods  and 
services at any CarltonOne Engagement location. 

In cases where the assistive device presents a safety concern or where accessibility might be an issue, 
other reasonable measures will be used to ensure the access of goods and services. 

Communication 
 
CarltonOne  Engagement  will  communicate  with  people  with  disabilities  in  ways  that  consider  their 
disability. 

  Train employees to be aware of signs of communications problems; 
  Asking the person how they would like to be communicated with; 
  Communicate with person with a disability in a manner that considers his/her disability. 

Service Animals 
 
We welcome people with disabilities and their service animals. Service animals are allowed on the parts 
of our premises (in Ontario) that are open to the public. 
 
Support Persons 

If a customer with a disability is accompanied by a support person, CarltonOne Engagement will ensure 
that both persons can enter the premises and the customer will not be prevented from having full access 
to the support person. In situations where confidential information might be discussed, consent will first 
be obtained from the customer, prior to any such conversation or disclosure. 

Fees will not be charged for support persons. In the event a third party is hosting an event and charging 
fees for the event, the support person will be allowed to attend the event at their own cost, unless not 
required by the third party. 
 
Should this situation change in the future, we will notify customers of this through a notice posted on our 
premises and at the time of booking any appointments. 
 
 

 

