 

 
ACCESSIBILITY POLICY  
 
Purpose: 
CarltonOne Engagement is committed to diversity, inclusion and accessibility for persons with disabilities. 
The  purpose  of  this  policy  is  to  establish  policies,  practices  and  procedures  to  ensure  CarltonOne 
Engagement is accessible to people with disabilities in accordance with Accessibility for Ontarians with 
Disabilities Act, 2005 (the "Act"). 

Policy Statement:  

CarltonOne Engagement is committed to ensuring equal access, service, and participation for people with 
disabilities. We are committed to treating people with disabilities in a way that allows them to maintain 
their dignity and independence.  

Application: 

This policy applies to all CarltonOne Engagement employees in Ontario.  

General Principles and Practices: 

CarltonOne  Engagement  shall  meet  its  duties and  responsibilities  under  the  “Act”  by  adhering  to  the 
following principles and practices: 

1.  Communication 

CarltonOne Engagement is committed to communicating with persons with disabilities in ways 
that consider their disability. 

2.  Training of employees 

CarltonOne Engagement will provide training to all its workers regarding the provisions and ways 
to ensure accessible programs, goods, services, and workplace. 

Training  will  occur  on  an  ongoing  basis  and  whenever  changes  are  made  to  relevant  policies, 
practices and procedures. 

3.  Assistive devices 

CarltonOne Engagement permits persons with disabilities to use their personal assistive devices 
while on its premises. 

4.  Service animals and support persons 

 

 

CarltonOne Engagement welcomes onto its premises people with disabilities and their service 
animals and support persons upon whom persons with disabilities rely.  

5.  Notice of temporary disruption 

CarltonOne Engagement will give notice of temporary disruptions to services or facilities used by 
persons with disabilities including the reason for the disruption, the anticipation of the disruption 
and any alternative facilities or services that may be available. The notice shall be posted in a 
conspicuous place on the premises. 

Procedure: 

To request accommodation or assistance for any good or service, contact CarltonOne Engagement by 
phone or email.  

1.  Feedback process 

CarltonOne Engagement encourages feedback regarding how it provides goods and services to 
persons with disabilities.  This can be provided via the following methods: 

• 

through the “Talk to us” link on our website 

E-mail:   
                          or by e-mail:  info@carltonone.com or HumanResources@carltonone.com 
 
  

 

•  Mail: 

 

Attn: Human Resources 
60 Columbia Way, 9th Floor 
Markham, ON L3R 0C9 

•  Phone:   

866.451.2225 

 

2.  Modifications to this or other policies 

CarltonOne Engagement is committed to ensuring that its policies, practices and procedures are 
consistent with and promote the core principles of dignity, independence, integration and equal 
opportunity.  Any  policy  that  does  not  respect  and  promote  the  dignity  and  independence  of 
persons with disabilities will be modified or removed. 

3.  Policy Review 

CarltonOne  Engagement  will  maintain  the  Accessibility  Plan  &  Policy  outlining  the  Company’s 
strategy to prevent and remove barriers from its workplace and to meet its requirements under 
the “Act”. 

4.  Compliance 

 
Employees are expected to comply with all parts of this policy.  Failure to comply will result in 
discipline, up to and including termination for cause. 

 

 

 

ACCESSIBILITY PLAN 
 
Assistive Devices 
 
CarltonOne Engagement will ensure that its staff is trained and familiar with various assistive devices that 
may be used by customers with disabilities while accessing our goods or services. 

Persons  with  disabilities  may  use  their  own  assistive  devices  as  required  when  accessing  goods  and 
services at any CarltonOne Engagement location. 

In cases where the assistive device presents a safety concern or where accessibility might be an issue, 
other reasonable measures will be used to ensure the access of goods and services. 

Communication 
 
CarltonOne  Engagement  will  communicate  with  people  with  disabilities  in  ways  that  consider  their 
disability. 

  Train employees to be aware of signs of communications problems; 
  Asking the person how they would like to be communicated with; 
  Communicate with person with a disability in a manner that considers his/her disability. 

Service Animals 
 
We welcome people with disabilities and their service animals. Service animals are allowed on the parts 
of our premises (in Ontario) that are open to the public. 
 
Support Persons 

If a customer with a disability is accompanied by a support person, CarltonOne Engagement will ensure 
that both persons can enter the premises and the customer will not be prevented from having full access 
to the support person. In situations where confidential information might be discussed, consent will first 
be obtained from the customer, prior to any such conversation or disclosure. 

Fees will not be charged for support persons. In the event a third party is hosting an event and charging 
fees for the event, the support person will be allowed to attend the event at their own cost, unless not 
required by the third party. 
 
Should this situation change in the future, we will notify customers of this through a notice posted on our 
premises and at the time of booking any appointments. 
 
 

 

 

 
 
Notice of Temporary Disruption 

In the event of a planned or unexpected disruption to services or facilities for customers with disabilities, 
CarltonOne  Engagement  will  notify  customers  promptly.  CarltonOne  Engagement  will  give  notice  of 
temporary disruptions to services or facilities used by persons with disabilities including the reason for 
the disruption, the anticipation of the disruption, and any alternative facilities or services that may be 
available. The notice shall be posted in a conspicuous place on the premises. 

Training for Staff 
 
Training  will  be  provided  to  all  CarltonOne  Engagement  employees  in  Ontario,  those  that  assist  in 
developing policies and procedures that govern the provision of goods and services to the public, and 
others who deal with the public or other third parties on their behalf. This training will be given to all new 
employees as part of their orientation. All training records will be kept in employee files. 
 
Training will include: 
 

  an overview of the Accessibility for Ontarians with Disabilities Act, 2005 and the requirements of 

the customer service standard; 

  how to interact and communicate with people with various types of disabilities; 

  how to interact with people with disabilities who use an assistive device or require the assistance 

of a service animal or a support person; 

  what to do if a person with a disability is having difficulty in accessing CarltonOne Engagement 

goods and services; 

 
Staff will also be trained when changes are made to this plan. 
 
Feedback process 
 
Customers who wish to provide feedback on the way CarltonOne Engagement provides goods and services 
to people with disabilities can do so by speaking with the representative whom they are dealing with, by 
contacting CarltonOne Engagement via e-mail or phone.  
 
 
 
All employee feedback should be directed to the Team Lead/ Supervisor/ Manager, Health and Safety, or 
Human Resources. 
 
 

 

 

 
 
Modifications to this or Other Policies 
 
Any policy of CarltonOne Engagement that does not respect and promote the dignity and independence 
of people with disabilities will be modified or removed. 
 
Providing Goods and Services to People with Disabilities 
 
CarltonOne  Engagement is  committed  to excellence in  servicing all  customers, including persons  with 
disabilities.  CarltonOne  Engagement  appreciates  the  difficulties  that  can  be  faced  by  people  with 
disabilities and strives to ensure that it can provide its services in a way that minimizes those difficulties.  
 
Recruitment and Selection 
 
CarltonOne  Engagement  will  notify  its  employees  and  the  public,  including  internal  and  external  job 
applicants  about  the  availability  of  accommodation  for  applicants  with  disabilities  in  its  recruitment 
processes. Where needed, accommodations for disabilities will be provided, on request, to support their 
participation in all aspects of the recruitment process. 

CarltonOne  Engagement  will  notify  candidates  that  accommodations  are  available  upon  request  in 
relation to the materials or processes to be used. 

During the application process, CarltonOne Engagement will provide necessary support to the applicants. 
We  will  consult  with  the  selected  applicant  and  provide  or  arrange  for  the  provision  of  a  suitable 
accommodation in a manner that takes into account the applicant’s accessibility needs due to disability. 

Employment 

CarltonOne  Engagement  will  inform  its  employees  of  the  policies  used  to  support  employees  with 
disabilities. We will provide this information to new employees as a part of their orientation. All existing 
employees will be provided with updated information on changes in accessibility policies whenever there 
is a change to existing policy.  

 
 
Accessible formats and communication support for employees 
 

CarltonOne Engagement will consult with the employee, on employee’s request, to provide or 
arrange  for  the  provision  and  identify  suitability  of  accessible  formats  and  communication 
supports for the information that is needed to perform the employee’s job; and the information 
that is generally available to employees in the workplace.  

 

 

 

 

Workplace Emergency Response Information  

CarltonOne Engagement will provide individualized workplace emergency response information 
to  employees  who  have  a  disability  or  to  the  person  designated  to  aid  the  employee  with 
disability,  if  the  disability  is  such  that  the  individualized  information  is  necessary,  and  the 
employer is aware of the need for accommodation due to the employee’s disability (permanent 
or temporary). 
 
The  individualized  workplace  emergency  response  information  will  be  reviewed  when  the 
employee  moves  to  a  different  location  in  the  organization;  when  the  employee’s  overall 
accommodations  needs,  or  plans  are  reviewed;  and  when  the  company  reviews  its  general 
emergency response policies. 
 

Individual Accommodation Plans 

CarltonOne  Engagement  will  develop  individual  accommodation  plans  for  employees  with 
disabilities of which they have been made aware.  
 
CarltonOne  Engagement  has  established  the  process  of  inquiring  all  employees  about  their 
accommodation needs during initial onboarding process through an Employee Information Form.  
 
There  may  be 
to  offer 
assistance  and  accommodation  to  an  employee  who  is  clearly  unwell  or  perceived  to  have  a 
disability. 

times  where  an  employer  may 

initiate  a  dialogue 

 

The process for the development of documented individual accommodation plans will include the 
following elements: 

1.  An employee requesting accommodation will have the opportunity to participate in the 
development of the individual accommodation plan and will be able to provide own point 
of view on the accommodation required in his/her circumstances. 

2.  The employee will be assessed on an individual basis, based on his/her needs. 
3.  The employer can request an evaluation by an outside medical or other expert, at the 

employer’s expense, to determine if and how accommodation can be achieved. 

4.  The  employee  can  request  the  participation  of  a  workplace  representative  in  the 

development of the accommodation plan. 

5.  Employee’s personal information will be held confidential and will be shared only with 

the parties involved in the accommodation process. 

6.  The frequency with which the individual accommodation plan will be reviewed and 

updated and the way it will be done. 

 

 

7. 

8. 

9. 

 

If an individual accommodation plan is denied, the reasons for the denial will be provided 
to the employee. 

Individual accommodation plan will be communicated to the employee by the means and 
in a format that considers the employee’s accessibility needs due to disability. 
If  requested,  individual  accommodation  plans  will  include  any  information  regarding 
accessible formats and communications supports available. 

10. If  required,  individual  accommodation  plans  will  include  individualized  workplace 
emergency response information; and identify any other accommodation that is to be 
provided. 

 
Employee’s emergency response information will be reviewed when: 

a)  The employee changes work locations 
b)  Employee’s overall accommodation needs are being reviewed 
c)  Organization’s general emergency response policies are being reviewed. 

 
Responsibilities of employer: 

  Provide the same level of safety for all employees and visitors during evacuations. 

 

Following an emergency, employer’s responsibilities are: 

  Call a staff meeting within 48 hours to talk about what has happened 
  Acknowledge the fear, anxiety and loss workers are experiencing 
  Provide information about next steps 
 

Inform employees on when, where, and how operations will resume, if worksite operations 
have been disrupted 

 
Responsibilities of employee with a disability:  

refuge 

  Be familiar with the building and the evacuation options – exits, stairwells, ramps, areas of 

  Know your workplace emergency evacuation plan 
  Work with employer to select co-workers who can assist you in case of an emergency 
  Participate in emergency drills 
  Be aware of the emergency notification systems at the workplace 
  Take responsibility for disability-specific needs, including having own personal preparedness 
kit with extra medication, extra batteries for personal assistive devices, extra tire or a tire 
repair kit for wheelchair users, and any other contingency supplies specific to the person’s 
disability 

 
Responsibilities of emergency wardens: 

  Ensure that safe evacuation process is followed during the evacuation, and collect accurate 

information about evacuated employees and visitors 

  Provide  information  to  first  responders when  they  arrive  about  the  number of  evacuated 
employees and visitors including people with disabilities waiting in areas of refuge and where 
they are located 

 

 

Responsibilities of all employees: 

 

  Follow evacuation procedure during the evacuation 

 

  Accompany  and  ensure  safe  evacuation  of  persons  with  disabilities  that  an  employee  is 

assigned to assist 

  Accompany clients or visitors an employee is with during the emergency, and ensure their 

safe evacuation 

 
Return to Work  

CarltonOne Engagement has a return to work policy and process in place to help employees to 
return to work when they have been absent because of their disability and they need some form 
of accommodation to return to work. Return to work plan will be appropriate for employees who 
have  permanent, 
require  disability-related 
accommodation to effectively return to work. 

temporary  disabilities  and 

recurring  or 

 
Performance Management  

CarltonOne  Engagement  will  take  into  account  the  accessibility  needs  of  employees  with 
disabilities, as well as individual accommodation plans, when using its performance management 
process in respect of employees with disabilities. If employee responsibilities change as a result 
of performance management process, and the employee has a disability, CarltonOne Engagement 
will  revisit  the  employee’s  individual  accommodation  plan  to  ensure  that  all  necessary 
adjustments are made. 
 

Career Development and Advancement 

CarltonOne  Engagement  will  take  into  account  the  accessibility  needs  of  the  employees  with 
disabilities as well as any individual accommodation plans, when providing career development 
and advancement to the employees who have disabilities. 
CarltonOne Engagement will take into account what accommodations employees with disabilities 
may need to succeed elsewhere in their organizations or to take on new responsibilities in their 
current position. 

 
Redeployment 

CarltonOne  Engagement  will  take  into  account  the  accessibility  needs  of  the  employees  with 
disabilities  as  well  as  any  individual  accommodation  plans,  when  redeploying  employees  who 
have disabilities. 
 
During the redeployment processes, CarltonOne Engagement will consider the accessibility needs 
of employees with disabilities, as well as reviewing individual accommodation plans when moving 
employees with disabilities to other jobs within the organizations, so that employees can continue 
to have their accommodation. 

  

 

